# idleRQ_sockets
In this programming project, we are sending a JPG image from a primary host to a secondary host. To achieve this, we developed an Idle RQ protocol implemented using sockets library. Our main goal was to understand the fundamentals of data communications and wireless communication design. We used C Lion for this program and ran two different projects, the client and the server. We set up a UDP connection to send the image over that connection. We set up variables such as BUFFER_SIZE which is the size of packets and how many bytes it will send at a time. First step was to create a sending socket using the socket() function and bind it to an address using the bind() function. Next, using the listen() function we listened for incoming connections and accepted it using the accept() function. For the binding, listening, and accepting functions we set up an if statement that would print if it failed. Once a connection is established, the program reads a file into a buffer in chunks, of a fixed size (BUFFER_SIZE) and sends each chunk over the socket connection using the send() function. The file is sent to the receiving program, file size is converted to network byte using the hton() function then sent over the socket connection using the send() function. Receive the file, keep track of the sequence number then close the socket. Similarly in the Server program, we did most of the same steps with some differences where we set up a receiving socket and receiving address. We connect to the primary host and receive the file size and write the received data to a file. 

